---
title: Clients
---

# Clients

A Client is an entity that uses authentication and authorization services provided by the Authorization Server. 
This authorization enables the Client to access protected resources.
In a common scenario, the Client is a browser application and the Resource Owner is a backend application 
located on a remote server.

Before a Client can ask for authorization, it must get registered at the Authorization Server and obtain a unique ID.
The registration can either be done in Admin UI or via the Admin API.

## Client metadata

The actual list of client metadata supported by Seacat Auth can be obtained at `GET /client/features` API.

### Canonical OAuth 2.0 and OpenID Connect metadata

Defined in [OpenID Connect Dynamic Client Registration 1.0](https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-registration-1_0.html)
and [OAuth 2.0 Dynamic Client Registration Protocol](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc7591#section-2).

#### `client_id`
`NOT EDITABLE` Unique ID of the Client. By default, it is an opaque string generated by the Authorization Server.
It is possible to request a custom ID by supplying the non-canonical `preferred_client_id` parameter in the 
client registration request.
The ID is not editable once the client is already registered.

#### `client_name`
`REQUIRED` Human-palatable name of the Client to be presented to the End-User.

#### `client_secret`
OAuth 2.0 client secret string. This value is used by confidential clients to authenticate to the token endpoint.
It is generated by the Authorization Server and is not directly editable. 

#### `client_uri`
URL of the home page of the Client.

#### `redirect_uris`
`REQUIRED` Array of Redirection URI values used by the Client.

#### `application_type`
Kind of the application. The default, if omitted, is `web`.

Supported options: `web`

#### `response_types`
JSON array containing a list of the OAuth 2.0 response_type values that the Client is declaring that it will restrict 
itself to using. If omitted, the default is that the Client will use only the `code` Response Type.

Supported options: `code`

#### `grant_types`
JSON array containing a list of the OAuth 2.0 Grant Types that the Client is declaring that it will restrict itself 
to using. If omitted, the default is that the Client will use only the `authorization_code` Grant Type.

Supported options: `authorization_code`

#### `token_endpoint_auth_method`
Requested Client Authentication method for the Token Endpoint. If omitted, the default is `none`.

Supported options: `none`

#### `code_challenge_method`
Code Challenge Method (used in [Proof Key for Code Exchange (PKCE)](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7636)) 
that the Client will restrict itself to use at the Authorize Endpoint. The default, if omitted, is `none`.

Supported options: 

- `none`: PKCE is disabled.
- `plain`: Code challenge is the same as the code verifier.
- `S256`: Code challenge is derived from the code verifier by using SHA-256 hashing algorithm.


## Non-canonical metadata

These are Seacat-Auth-specific features.

#### `preferred_client_id`
`REGISTRATION ONLY` Requests a specific `client_id` instead of a randomly generated one at client registration.

#### `redirect_uri_validation_method`
Specifies the method how the redirect URI used in authorization requests is validated. The default and recommended 
value is `full_match`.

Supported options: 

- `full_match`: **The only OAuth2.0 compliant option.** Requested Redirect URI must exactly match one of the registered
  Redirect URIs.
- `prefix_match`: Requested Redirect URI must start with one of the registered Redirect URIs and their hostname must 
  exactly match.
- `none`: There is no Redirect URI validation. Not secure.

#### `cookie_name`
`NOT EDITABLE` Unique cookie name derived from Client ID by the Authorization Server. Cookie with this name holds 
the information 

#### `cookie_webhook_uri`
Webhook URI for setting additional custom cookies at the cookie entrypoint. It must be a back-channel URI and must 
accept a JSON PUT request and respond with a JSON object of cookies to set.

#### `cookie_entry_uri`
Public URI of the client's cookie entrypoint. This field is **required** for cookie-based authorization (including 
batman authorization). One such entrypoint should be available on every hostname where there are Clients that use 
cookie-based authorization.

#### `cookie_domain`
Domain of the client cookie. If not specified, the application's default cookie domain is used.

#### `authorize_uri`
URL of OAuth authorize endpoint. Useful when logging in from different than the default domain.

#### `login_uri`
URL of preferred login page. Useful when logging in from different than the default domain.

#### `authorize_anonymous_users`
Boolean value specifying whether to authorize requests with anonymous users.

#### `anonymous_cid`
ID of credentials that is used for authenticating anonymous sessions.

#### `session_expiration`
Client session expiration. The value can be either the number of seconds or a time-unit string such as `4 h` or `3 d`.
